---
title: "Composeable Javascript Web"
path: "/posts/composeable-web"
date: "2017-07-02"
image: "images/hipster_mission_art.jpg"
draft: false
author: "Alex Shulman"
summary: "The future is of the web will have faster JS in more places - It's things like ES6 and Typescript make excited to write JS again."
tags:
  - test
---


# The Composeable Javascript Web
------

<small>**The future is of the web will have faster JS in more places - It's things like ES6 and Typescript make excited to write JS again.**</small>

*I'm ready to move on, I'm ready for a composeable web where shared libraries are not a chore to maintain. I'm ready for the end twitter bootstrap and jquery. I'm excited about the possibility and success of React native and Electron. I love to see progressive, lazy loaded, locally cached and incredibly fast apps with working browser history.*



## Where I'm @

I build fairly classic WSGI webapps with Python/Flask/<insert html framework here>  on Google App Engine + CDN for mostly everything - it's powerful, fast and simple to develop. AppEngine means if I can pay for scaling if I need to, the CDN reduced AppEngine static costs to near nil. These days I do most of my front end with Bootstrap and jQuery - because it's straightforward and speed of development (not application speed) is my biggest priority.

It took a bit of bouncing around to land on a stack I've stuck with.

``` LAMP -> ABAP -> + [ nginx/HAProxy] -> Perl ->  AppEngine -> Python -> GoLang```

Conceptually I've always been kind of excited by Node.js  - but I don't find myself going to much in my professional life. I've found the Node.js community has some prolific anti-patterns and NPM was slow. Yarn takes away some of things that have struck me as kind of strange about NPM (determinastic installs, caching and linking mainly).



## Insert React

I've used various JS frameworks over the years to handle ajax or make front end dev easier but I've never felt comfortable devoting the time/resources completely to an encompassing framework like Angular / Ember.  The target always seams to be moving faster then I'm willing to commit to.

React is [stable](https://facebook.github.io/react/blog/2016/04/07/react-v15.html), backed by real developer $$ (lets be real without a major backer these frameworks all end up dying) and solves a real problem anyone who has built more then one webbapp run into - reusable composeable components. That is stable reusable html sections with dynamic elements. Even without React I expect web components like JS is here to stay. Because of the adoption of React, the React / JSX community has lots of resources, variation on style and problem solving and that really makes it exciting to dive into React.



## The Plan

- **Build the same blog a couple times to wrap my head around React**
- **Decide if it is worth it to go with Typescript. (And get in bed with Microsoft)**
- **Is it time to migrate my frontend work to React?**

